start of page 2

are poorly documented), and Late Immigrants (those after 1780 and who generally promoted the Treaties of 1817 and 1819). Each group does constitute a land area and a type of group, though most of the group areas overlap that of other groups.

<br />

Most of the Ancient Ones' groups trace their origins to 800-900 years ago when the invaders, the People Eaters who came out of the south and the Great Warriors who came out of the west, requested certain priestly groups to stay and maintain the Sacren Fire mounds. The invaders feared the retribution of Creator if the fires were not continued at the Cherokee mounds. The Cherokee in this prehistoric period would have existed in occasional villages in a country dominated by conquerors. Over time, the population of conquerors diminished, particularly after the arrival of the Spanish in the southeast United States and the spread of diseases they brought. This allowed the Cherokee groups to expand. Examples of Ancient One's groups are the Amonsoquoth, the Grand River Cherokee, the Dardanelle Cherokee, the Hot Springs Cherokee, and the White Dove Cherokee. The Amonsoquoth are located in the southeastern Missouri and trace their origins to the "Mountain of the Three Chiefs" and the beginning of the Western Cherokee in the eastern Ozarks (Interviews: Red Wasp (John Dushanack) May 20, 2001, Many Suns June 8, 1999). The Grand River Cherokee are located in the upper reaches of the Grand River, from the Fort Gibson Dam and north. They cared for thei major fire mounds including the largest of the small mounds at Taylor Ferry South. The Dardanelle Cherokee (a name I have given them since they live in the area of Dardanelle) cared for the mounds along the Arkansas River in west central Arkansas. I am still working on the history of the Hot Springs Cherokee but their function was to maintain a sacred fire near the hot springs, which were as popular in prehistoric times as they are today. The White Cherokee (sometimes called White Dove or Messenger of Peace) are located in Arkansas and Missouri in the Mountain Home area north of White River. There are a number of sacred sites and sacred fires the group maintained in that region (Interview: Snowbird May 21, 2001). There are other Ancient One's groups but they are still being researched or have not given permission to announce their presence. All of these groups are encompassed inside the areas claimed by other Western Cherokee groups. We look forward to these groups "coming out" and joining the Cherokee Nation West. It is a honor to be a member of the <strong>Sovereign Chickamauga Cherokee Tribe Dardanelle Arkansas of Cherokee Nation West</strong>


History of Cherokee Nation West was given by Dr. Timoth W. Jones (Anthropological).